Vegan Okonomiyaki
Ingredients for Vegan Okonomiyaki
To make vegan okonomiyaki, there are a couple of essential ingredients that will make it stand out from the rest. I’ve been able to find all these ingredients at my local asian market so I hope you have access to these too! Here’s what you’ll need: 

Yamaimo (Mountain Yam) / Nagaimo (Long Yam): This is what makes the pancakes fluffy and chewy at the same time. This ingredient needs to be grated and it gets very slimy but don’t be alarmed! If you don’t have access to Nagamio I have also tested it using soft/silken tofu and water which works quite well. About 1:1 ratio of tofu and water mashed together.
Rice Flour: This makes for a pleasant chewy pancake and keeps it gluten free! If you prefer a more traditional-flour texture pancake, use all purpose flour instead. 
Baking powder: Optional, but adds a bit of fluffiness.
Tenkasu (Tempura scraps): Gives texture and extra fluffiness to the pancakes. You can buy them on amazon or make them at home! Simply just drop tempura batter into hot oil, scoop with a slotted spoon and place on a paper towel to get rid of excess oil. 
Shiitake Mushrooms: Gives more umami flavour and replaces the pork belly typically used. You could also use soy curls!
Kombu Dashi: Gives the pancakes a delicious umami flavour.
Cabbage: Used in all okonomiyaki and gives texture to the pancakes.
Okonomiyaki Sauce: This is a MUST. I use the Otafuku’s Okonomiyaki sauce which is vegan (and the most popular). However, if you can’t find you can make a DIY version by mixing ketchup, tonkatsu sauce / Japanese Worcester sauce, soy auce and brown sugar.
Japanese Mayonnaise: I use my own vegan Japanese mayonnaise here. I don’t suggest using western mayo because the flavour is completely different. 
Anori (dried seaweed): Is particularly more fragrant than just slicing up seaweed. 
Beni Shoga (Pickled Ginger): Thinly sliced ginger can also be used but use less than recipe amount.
Scallions

How to Vegan Okonomiyaki
Making okonomiyaki is easy. The most difficult part may be flipping the pancake because of how large it is. If you’re new to making okonomiyaki, you can make smaller pancakes that are easier to flip!

Prepare the Yamaimo: peel and grate the yamaimo into a bowl. Be careful because it is very slimy and slippery!
Make the batter: add the dashi, rice flour and salt and mix. Then add the other ingredient and mix until combined and everything is coated in the batter.
Cook: Heat a griddle (this is the one I use when making more than 2) or large pan on high. Once you see some sizzling, decrease the temperature to medium and then spoon the batter creating a large thick pancake (about 2 cm in thickness). Cover and cook for 5 minutes. Covering the pancake keeps the pancakes moist and ensures it cooks all the way through. Carefully but quickly flip the pancake using two turners. Then cover and cook for another 5-6 minutes.
Serve: Place on a serving plate and generously drizzle with okonomiyaki sauce and mayonnaise. Then garnish with green onions, aonori and more beni shoga.
